# Seth Hanusik

## Contribution
My lead for our project was managing the server side of development and I was also responsible for managing our database. I started with getting our database environment setup, which I used Docker for. I used Elasticsearch's available Docker containers to create an instance of Elasticsearch which housed the data and Kibana which was an interface to interact with the data easily. The next step was setting up an index, which I turned into an API that we could easily call when we needed to update the database schema as we evolved our data structure. The next step was creating the APIs to create each of our next data structures, codeblocks, votes, and comments, and how the votes and comments would be structured under the parent codeblock. After the structure was decided, the logic was written using the Elasticsearch SDK to index each of the data structures into the index. The last APIs written were ones to retrieve data from the database with both simple filtering queries and more complex full text search queries, again using the Elasticsearch SDK.

## Skill Development
This project was the perfect application of my current skills that I had been honing over my co-op rotations and it allowed me to expand on my existing skill set. I had quite a bit of experience with API development with .NET and C#, so this project allowed me to grow in that area and build my own APIs. I had also worked with Elasticsearch over a couple of my co-op rotations, but all of the queries using the Elasticsearch SDK had already been built for me and I could just invoke simple methods, but with CodeBase I was able to learn to build those queries on my own to return the desired results from searching. The biggest obstacble that I faced was learning how to build each of the search queries and making them modular so that a variable number of tags can be applied and how to make certain filters optional. This issue was not aided by Elasticsearch's documentation, because while the documentation is extensive for the different queries that can be built, it does not extend to the C# SDK and only really applies to the Kibana development environment console. This forced me to find other sources of information to learn the C# structure.

## Group Accomplishment
I am really proud of what we accomplished in terms of development. We were able to create a fully functional web application with a modern looking UI in a fairly short amount of time. The three of us also worked really well together and communicated often and effectively about what we were working on and the next steps we needed to take. The way we divided work was also beneficial because we were able to start the early stages of development and not have to rely on someone else's work that would block progress, and then as we rounded out each half we were able to begin the integration of them together.

## Group Work
The three of us also contributed equally to development, we focused two member's efforts toward the UI because of the extensive undertaking it was going to take, and I was happy to take the backend work and create any new APIs the frontend needed to populate the UI. Lastly, I'd be happy to say I think Matt deserves some special recognition because he often took it upon himself to do the initial legwork for setting up assignments and getting his part done, and the letting James and I fill out our portions of the assignment. Matt also was our main output of communications; he was always the one to reach out our advisor via email or phone call to update him on our work and next steps or to Professor Annexstein with questions.