# James Wilfong
My contribution to this project was spread out into various areas. Initially, I formed the team and had plans for us to do a different yet similar project. However, it was collectively decided to shift to a new brainstormed plan that was agreed to be more interesting. Personally, I contributed quite a bit to the planning and design phase of the project. In terms of implementation, my main contribution was to the front-end of the codeblock and user pages. I have taken two web design classes in the past that I believe prepared me well for what our UI required. I’ve also worked with similar front-end heavy applications in my co-op experiences. 

I’ve definitely built upon my development skills as a result of this project. I’ve gotten to learn and use technologies I’ve never used before such as Vue.js and ElasticSearch. I can definitely see myself applying these to future projects as they were quite impressive and useful. On the other hand, it was a bit of an obstacle for me to take on learning these new technologies. I sometimes got stuck trying to get something to work the way I wanted it to because I wasn’t understanding the specific way it was handled with that technology.

Our group accomplished making a web application that functions similar to Github allowing users to store code and interact socially by listing code publicly, rating code good or bad, and commenting to discuss with other users. We believe by using ElasticSearch, our application could perform queried results even faster than similar platforms. 

The main obstacles I feel we came across as a group during this project were time management, communication, and source control. Time management was tough for us this semester as myself and teammates were quite busy with our school, work, and personal lives. It was hard to find time to get as much done as we initially wanted to. Communication was a bit of an obstacle as a result of lacking time management. We definitely could have benefited from more regular team meetings. Finally, source control was a bit of a problem since we would each be working on our own pieces of the project and then try to merge really big functionality together all at once. It wasn’t a major obstacle, but it was definitely something that could have gone smoother had we maintained better communication. I believe I chose really great teammates for this project that were always proactive about fulfilling their assigned responsibilities and meeting every deadline. I had to try hard to keep up with their incredible work ethic. In particular, I believe Matthew Schlager should receive special recognition. He really stepped up to be the leader throughout this project by always keeping us on track with due dates, keeping our advisor informed, and maintaining a really positive attitude.
